---
layout: post
title: Plagiarism is harmful to yourself and others; it's common sense!
subtitle: Society is effectively killing it's creators, both current and future.
image: /img/X.jpg
---
TL;DR: Plagiarism has done and will continue to do drastic damage to society if people remain indifferent to it's consequences.

Common sense dictates that plagiarism is a quick, easy solution to accomplishing a task. It is much easier to take someone else's idea and branch off of it or copy it completely than to have to start from scratch and create your own work; this is a given. By focusing on the immediate payoff of plagiarism, people overlook the deeper problem within the matter. In the long run, one is robbing his or herself of their education, even though it's not in a classroom setting. One is effectively limiting his or her potential to create without the access to outer resources; this is also a given. Without the ability to create, one's ability to contribute to the greater good of society is trivial. The advent of plagiarism not only harms one's own ability to create, but it also reduces society's desire to create. If one knows his or her work is bound to be stolen and that he or she will not be credited for the good they attempted to do for society, their desire to continue creating new material will surely reduce; this too is a given! The fact that the overwhelming negatives of plagiarism are "common knowledge" raises the following question: "Why do we continue to plagiarize other people's work?" I believe the answer to this question falls into the category of morality. If you have ever thought about plagiarizing one's work or even gone through with it, I'm sure that you've felt at least some sense of reluctance. Sometimes, though, one may feel their needs are more important than the betterment of the world around them, and this is where morality comes in. I've personally separated those people who don't feel remorse for their actions into three categories; personality traits, if you will: those who are lazy, those who are selfish, and those who play off of learned helplessness.

Laziness is the most common of these traits and is a feeling we've all experienced at some point in our lives. There's guaranteed to be some time where we decide that we don't want to do something because we just don't feel like it; in the case of plagiarism, we don't want to create something new and would rather just take somebody else's idea and call it a day. I'm sure somebody at every school has done this and been called out for it, but I don't believe it's looked down upon and shunned enough. This trait is the simplest to fix; we can enhance our schooling system so that it teaches from a very early age that laziness is not tolerable; they'd rather have nothing turned in than something that is not original. Schools claim that they do attempt to prevent it as best as possible, and while some do a splendid job of it, others may be slacking. Society must be openly and unanimously against plagiarism so that we can start taking action against it; we must instill its drawbacks into the minds of kids at an early age so their views will be impacted throughout the rest of their life. Some people, however, may not be as easily convinced that plagiarism is wrong.

Those who feel no remorse for their actions because they feel that what they need is more important than the needs of others are defined as selfish. We've all experienced selfishness at some point in our lives whether it be between siblings or classmates on the elementary school playground. Selfishness is typically taught against and thus not a personality trait humans retain but some people have mental disorders such as antisocial personality disorder (APD) that disables their ability to distinguish between what's right and wrong. They learned to fight for themselves while developing and were never taught how their actions could potentially harm others; the world is just kill or be killed to them. In the case of plagiarism, people with such disorders don't feel regret for stealing the work of others because they are only able to see their needs. This is clearly a problem for both our society's creators and those who are plagiarizing their works. Though it is not easy to convince these people to believe that their actions are harmful, I think that increasing awareness would be a potent solution to combat the problem at hand. We could have our schooling system assign cited papers at earlier ages or ones with stricter guidelines to discover trends within students throughout development. Those who are constantly ignoring these rules would face more major repercussions and would be reported to the parents as a dire issue. This is not a flawless solution to the issue; we cannot force a person to behave in a way that is beneficial to us, but we could be helping that one person who may be in the development of a mental disorder whose parents are open to acting on the issue.

Sometimes, however, it is difficult to catch if the person is genuinely selfish or just pretending. Those who are pretending play off of learned helplessness, where they are fully aware of the rules but play dumb because they feel it’s easier to fight their battles in this way. These people are the easiest to track because they are often not very good at playing dumb; however, they are incredibly difficult to change because they see no reason to if they’re getting what they want in the end. Likely, these people have been traumatized in the past because they could never do an assignment the right way so they decided to take the easy way out and plagiarize because there’s no other solutions. In a case like this, an easy solution would be to show them that there’s hope; sometimes, it’s the fault of the school for not explaining the rules in enough depth or walking them through it. Showing them what’s expected of them would likely give them hope that they can learn how to fix their issue. Therapy based around this would also be helpful even though the patient may be reluctant to attend. Any positivity the patient can be exposed to could make the difference between a traumatized person and one with new hope for their future.

I am fully aware that I have identified all of these causes as negative things that are at fault of either disorders of just someone not caring; both heavily stigmatized by society. Rather than take this is a personal attack, I strive for us as a society to be fully aware of the issues and be actively fighting them for the betterment of our world. Without creators, we wouldn’t have much of the inventions we take for granted today; new technology, scientific breakthroughs, music… These would all not have been created if someone didn’t have the will to create it. So, rather than be a society based around tearing each other down for our own betterment, I hope that we can advance as one, building off of each other and creating a better world for everyone.

Reference:
<a title="Plagiarism" href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/wolfgangstaudt/2757928374">X</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/wolfgangstaudt">Wolfgang Staudt</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY) license</a> </small>
