---
layout: post
title: Skepticism on the Web
subtitle: The drawbacks to not having anonymity on the internet for our future.
image: /img/X.jpg
---
TL;DR: Someone may be attempting to exploit you or someone you love online right now; be aware, and be safe.

The advent of the internet is certainly one that cannot be looked upon unfavorably. Many people have come together across their own countries and even around the world due to how revolutionary a system that allows people to communicate and collaborate is. Even though the internet has brilliant upsides, there is one downside to it that has struck fear in the minds of anyone who has used it; anonymity. In most places on the internet you are not forced to hand out your name, age, or any other personal information about yourself. You can do and say just about whatever you want with no repercussions because nobody (without extensive knowledge in the subject) has a way to track you down. This brings up issues that may ultimately outweigh all the benefits of the internet and trivialize its ability to be a force to be reckoned with in raising a new generation. Kids are often found playing video games online in our modern society and, though they may be helpful for building social connections with friends at school or around the world, they bring skeptical and fearful thoughts within the parents.

One of the main issues that parents deal with whose kids play games on the internet is the inevitable bullying that comes from other gamers. Since there is no way to physically defend yourself against the words being thrown at you, people think they can get away with saying whatever they want, and most of the time they do. This can cause developmental issues within a child in the same way physical bullying at school would. I believe the most effective solution in stopping this would be more intensive monitoring by parents. This is the most cut and dry answer to the question but the problem is that the parents don’t do as much as they believe in guarding their child. Though there is no guaranteed way for parents to see everything said to their child due to how fast text boxes scroll by, they may be able to catch their child being exposed to toxic people and withdraw them from that environment. This could also be a good springboard into the talk about why bullying is wrong and how to avoid toxic people in your life. Parents claim to be allies to their kids, and should hold themselves to it in every way possible even if it means risking their child’s fun for the sake of their development; you can always find something else that’s productive to do and fun!

The most feared issue within families of child gamers is the need to wary of those who seek inappropriate relationships with children. Reports have been made about kids that make “friendships” with adults online to gain trust. Once trust is gained, the adult will ask the child to meet them somewhere, attempt to separate them from the parents, and then either snatch them or worse. Since no names are exchanged, or rather you can create a fake name with no proof of realness, the anonymity present online is what sparks the issue. Many people have reported cases of this and with the advent of the internet gaining trust from these kids is made all the more convenient. The only way to stop this is, again, by having better monitoring on the parents’ part. I’ve met the majority of my friends through video games online and my parents quickly became skeptical of how much I trusted them. They asked me one day to let them hear my friends talking and, once they found out they were of an appropriate age, they never asked again. I think they make fine role models on what should be done in these cases, as I did not feel as though they were intruding on my personal space, just doing what caring parents should. I know there are voice synthesizers and other technology people have access to now that can make a convincing decoy, but the parents must never let the relationship get to the “meeting” level.

With access to new technology, we have ways of tracking these online predators and arrested them for violating the law. Anonymity goes out the window when you have vast knowledge of information regarding computers. IP addresses allow us to pinpoint the location of the computer used and thus search the computer for evidence of malicious behavior. Some may cry foul that this is intruding on their 4th Amendment Rights – those protecting unlawful search and seizure. The investigators must have a valid reason for wanting the search the computer, and sometimes it can’t simply be justified. Rules need to be set to define a line when it’s justified to search one’s property, and these lines are hard to create due to lack of raw evidence. One method police often use is playing a decoy. They initiate conversation with the predator as an alleged “child” and bait the predator into scheduling a meetup. Once the predator does this, the police have all the evidence they need to arrest. When the time occurs the “child” shows up with backup: the cops. If the predator cries foul and claims he has been played he has no evidence to back up his argument; he had voluntarily played into their hand and is legally subject to arrest for inappropriate online relationships with a child. I think this is a brilliant and efficient way to lawfully gain evidence against suspected online predators; they are not being exploited in any way, they brought it amongst themselves to meet up, and if they can’t face the repercussions, they shouldn’t have been doing it in the first place, how it ultimately should be.

Though the internet is an amazing place for innovation and collaboration, it is also one filled with dangerousness and deceit. You must always be on the lookout for someone who is willing to exploit you in a way never before recorded and have a plan to combat it. In the case of children, extra care must be taken to ensure that they are safe and happy browsing the web or playing video games online amongst many other arounds the world. Only limit the toxic, deceitful friends from their lives, not the ones that are (unsuspiciously) compassionate and capable of keeping your child happy during their time spent.

Reference:
<a title="Plagiarism" href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/wolfgangstaudt/2757928374">X</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/wolfgangstaudt">Wolfgang Staudt</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY) license</a> </small>
