---
layout: post
title: Music Theft - Why Would You Do It?
subtitle: The influence of morals and law on the issue of music piracy.
image: /img/Music.jpg
---
TL;DR: Music Piracy has been passed on for generations in different forms, but people’s ability to care about suppressing the issue has not differed; not enough people want to take a stand against it.

Music piracy has been around since the dawn of time, whether it be published compositions being sold as originals or, in our modern society, music being illegally downloaded over the internet. I think that personal morals have a drastic effect on it, and it fascinates me to see how many people around me think that pirating music is okay as a concept. One of my primary questions is that of if parenting has any impact on the issue, and how older generations may have changed my current generation’s views on piracy. To find an answer to my question, I interviewed my 1 on 1 vocal instructor (who is of the older crowd), and she has willingly helped me make a stand on the issue.

1) **Do you consider yourself a morally proper person?** Yes, I have never been one to attempt to make any trouble. 2) **Have you ever participated in illegally downloading music?** I have downloaded music over YouTube to share with my students until I realized I could just send them a link to the video. 3) **Have you ever published music online?** No, but it sounds like something I would have done if I was younger! 4) **Do you have kids, and have you shown / will you discuss the issue of music piracy with them?** I don’t have kids but if I did, I would certainly teach them about it and then show them ways to avoid intentionally doing it for malicious purposes. 5) **In a research study John is faced with an ethical dilemma – He is going to a party and wants to buy his friend a gift, but has spent all his money on college expenses. He decides to illegally burn music onto a CD and gives it to his friend (Altschuller 2009). Do you think this is okay?** I think it’s alright as long as he doesn’t share it in public.  6) **If you had to classify your stand on this dilemma, do you think downloading the music is okay (Right or Wrong), and do you advise John to do it (Do, Don’t)?** I think he’s wrong in his decision, and he should not share it with his friend. I’m sure he could have come up with something more creative and genuine to give his friend if he really cared a lot about him. A simple drawing or cheaply made art piece would mean more to me than a CD with music the giver didn’t compose or sing himself. 7) **The statistics show that in this study, the college students questioned believe that it is: Wrong to download, but go ahead and do it represents 28% of the participants, Wrong to download, so don’t do it represents 20% of the participants, Right to download, but don’t do it anyways represents 5% of the participants, and Right to download, so go ahead and do it represents 47% of the participants. How do you feel about this?** This surprises me. The laws regarding the issue are in place for a reason and should be adhered to as such. The rules should be firmer, but a person of my age doesn’t have a proposal for a way to enforce these rules. 8) **Do you think the results of this study are general enough to be cast on society? Is it anonymous enough to be unbiased? Were the participants in fear of being held accountable for their responses?** I think the percentages could perhaps be too high, but since they didn’t put names to the students they might be accurate. This study may be too general to use as a replica of society as a whole because of how general it is. I don’t think they were in fear of being held accountable by law enforcement officials, but they may have been more in fear of being judged by the hosts of the research study. 9) **Do you have any personal stories to share on the issue?** In my years of teaching I’ve often used a Xerox machine to copy music for my students to use during lessons. I’ve always made sure, however, that they know they are not to leave the room without returning the music to me so I don’t get into any trouble by illegally downloading music. This view of mine could perhaps be comparable to the practices many people participate in today. 10) **Do you still consider yourself a morally proper person?** Yes, I always do my best to be the best person I can, and never do anything with malicious intents. I shocks me that so many people are so unlike me, but I can still go home and know that I am a good person.

My teacher shares the same views as me when it comes to morality, but the study brought up shows that the thoughts of most students around my age do not align with mine. This shocks me because I like to think that most people have good intentions, but there are people out there who are certainly attempting to break rules for their own good. At the end of the day, all that matters is who I am and how I carry myself as a person, but my hope is that I can touch at least one person in my lifetime and positively impact their views on this issue.
Altschuller, Shoshana, and Raquel Benbunan-Fich. "Is Music Downloading the New Prohibition? What Students Reveal through an Ethical Dilemma." Https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10676-008-9179-1. N.p., 17 Jan. 2009. Web.

Reference:
<a title="music" href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rustybrick/2162961482">itunes</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/rustybrick">Barry Schwartz</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY) license</a> </small>
