---
layout: post
title: The Art of Speedrunning Defined
subtitle: How Super Metroid created a play-through style and a community.
image: /img/SM.jpg
---

TL;DR: Super Metroid defined a new play-through method of gaming and has greatly impacted the lives of many both within the gaming community and around the world.

Speedrunning is a play-through style that involves getting through an entire game in one sitting as fast as possible. Accomplishing this feat requires vast knowledge of the game, skill, and precision to pull off well. Gamers have always been about speed in games, but a game had never been made that seemed to be intricately designed to be ran through as quickly as possible. It wasn't until Deer Force created Super Metroid for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in 1994 that the gaming industry had changed. I remember watching my uncle play it when I was around 7 years old, and was terrified of its gloomy, lonesome atmosphere and tricky puzzles, so I never played it on my own. It wasn't until I rediscovered it in 2012 that my entire outlook on gaming changed.

In my first run of the game I figured that I could breeze through the game since I was older and had more common sense, but I remember the exact spot I got stuck on, the "noob bridge" and is it named. The protagonist Samus Aran has the ability to dash from the start of the game but I was unaware and could not figure out how to cross this obstacle. Frustrated after a half hour of trying, I googled for the solution, and found a community of people that had the same issue as me. They showed me videos of popular runners explaining how to get across common obstacles and I used these guides to complete the game whenever I had no idea what to do next. I finished my first playthrough in 6 hours with 54% of the items collected. Bummed that I didn’t find everything, the completionist in me decided that I needed to google where all of the items in the game were and the most efficient way to get them. What I found while googling this was forums upon forums of people who were interested in speedrunning this game and had been developing exploits to get through the game as quickly as possible.

The main exploit they had been discussing was the use of the “mockball” trick. Early on in the game Samus gains the ability to morph into a ball and navigate through tiny crevices at the cost of some ground speed. Runners, however, found a way to keep your running speed while in a ball so that they could clear certain obstacles in less time than intended. The mockball trick is done by jumping while running and then morphing into a ball right as you hit the ground. This trick allowed runners to get an upgrade early and even skip an entire time-consuming mini boss effectively cutting off 5-10 minutes from all runs.
Another exploit players had found was what is now known as the “short charge.” About a quarter of the way into the game Samus acquires the speed booster, an item that allows her to dash quickly in one direction destroying everything in her path once she gets to top speed. When she is at top speed, she also has the ability to crouch and store a “shinespark,” a movement technique that allows Samus to quickly move in the direction she chooses at the expense of her health based on distance traveled. Players found that the game is coded to only check if she is running on certain frames of her running animation in order to acquire top speed, so they were able to tap the run button on those specific frames and trick the game into giving them top speed in a space that is much shorter than intended. This trick allows for many sequence breaks and the ability to skip many of the rooms in the game by simply charging over or through them. These tricks have become crucial to running this game, and I’m glad I was able to see the formation of some of these tricks.

Even though the speedrunning community is dedicated to the games they run and finding every exploit possible, they are still great friends with each other. These people hold events on the weekends where they get together and run the game to see if they can discover anything new or test the new strategies and routes they’ve theorized over the past week. I’ve participated in a few of these and while I may win all the time, I still have a blast just talking to them while I play my favorite game. The speedrunning community also hosts an event biannually called AGDQ, or Awesome Games Done Quick. These events showcase some of the best runners in their respective games and allow the different communities to come together to show what discoveries they’ve made in their games over the past year. During these events, they also accept donations from around to world and donate money to charities, the most prominent of them being Doctors Without Borders. Being part of a community that cares so much about fun while helping the world makes me feel great inside. The friendships I’ve built with many runners have lasted to this day, and I’m glad to have found such a special group of people to share my favorite game with.


Reference:
<a title="govern the actions" href="https://flickr.com/photos/sanguinetangox/4625218875">govern the actions</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/sanguinetangox">eightseventyseven</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-ND) license</a> </small>
