---
layout: post
title: A Detrimental Echochamber
subtitle: YouTube's unintentional creation of an echochamber of information and entertainment.
image: /img/YouTube.png
---
TL;DR: YouTube is a wonderful resource, but it's recommended videos function limits the amount of resources the average user knows is available to him or her.

YouTube is a great resource for many people around the world. We all have used it to view the massive amount of videos uploaded by millions of people coming from a variety of backgrounds. These videos span over a wide variety of topics from how-to videos to a wide variety of music, even videos showing and analyzing politics! These videos reach out to almost every audience, so everyone has a use of YouTube. The advent of YouTube has created a revolution of entertainment, but cannot say it doesn't have it downsides. YouTube has pigeonholed users into viewing videos of similar topics that they've viewed before due to the "recommended videos" system of Google, and thus has created an "echochamber" of information for people after a few quick video searches.

Every time you search a video, YouTube remembers it and attempts to give you videos of the same style in your recommended videos on the front page of the website. A prime example of this would be music. Let's say you have a strong liking for Beyonce and constantly search for her music. YouTube remembers this and spits out more videos from Beyonce's VEVO at you for you to watch. You may have a secret liking for country music you never knew about, but if you never search for it, YouTube doesn't prioritize showing you these videos unless they are trending. Even if you branch out to other styles of music, videos that you've watched time and time again will start showing up in the videos on the sidebar even if they have no relevance to the video you're watching. I personally found my favorite artist, Tori Kelly, through YouTube, but I only found her through her doing a cover of Michael Jackson's PYT. I would have never found her by myself if I didn't like the pop music she did a cover of, so the recommended section of YouTube almost ruined my chances of discovering my current favorite vocalist.

I have had similar experiences when watching videos of people playing video games. I find a lot of video games I like to play also fun to watch, and even find new games to try through my favorite YouTubers. The only problem with this is that usually a YouTuber will stick to a game or style of game that they are good at so that they can maintain viewers and sponsorships. One of my favorite YouTubers, STAR_ or Ster, primarily plays first person shooters because of his proficiency at playing them. He is also a very funny guy; his sense of humor and comments on the game he is playing never fail to make me laugh out loud even sometimes scaring friends of mine. He has made many videos on TF2 with his friends and some other random videos here and there, but he doesn't strive to consistently play games of other styles or branch out to other consoles besides PC because he has no reason to; he's okay with doing what he does. This wouldn't be a problem to me if it weren't for the recommended search system. Because I've watched his videos so many times, they often appear near the top of my recommended videos on the front page of YouTube. I remember how funny I thought one of his videos was or I see a new video of his, and I click on it. I keep watching videos of the same style over and over, and sometimes it gets boring, but YouTube offers no other recommended options of videos games besides first person shooters. I would love to find a YouTuber that consistently posts videos on some of my other favorite games, but YouTube has no knowledge of my liking of those games and will always remind of the same videos that I have watched in the past. This limits the ability for gamers like me to branch out into others genres. This is not the fault of YouTube itself, but of the recommended videos system of YouTube that you see every time you open the website.

A topic many people can relate to is the discussion of politics. Many people often search for videos of recent political events to be in the know of what's going on in their government. In times of debate and disagreement, such as the election process in light of recent events, the YouTube recommended section can be detrimental to our society as a whole. Everyone has their own viewpoints on politics and that's alright, but when they keep feeding themselves the same information it will limit their knowledge of other viewpoints. Let's say you have a very liberal point of view and often watch videos that support your beliefs. YouTube will continually feed you information from firmly liberal channels limiting your knowledge of conservative points of view and beliefs. You probably have no intention to view videos of another point of view because you don't think it's right and it may appall you, but justification of our ideas and beliefs is necessary for us to understand each other. For a society that strives to be more open and accepting of others beliefs, the fact that the media can limit and even kill arguments from people who disagree on an issues proves detrimental to moving forward as a society.

YouTube certainly is a wonderful resource for all; without it, I'd be lost to find sources of free, easy-access entertainment, but nobody can honestly say it doesn't come without its flaws. The fact that it unintentionally limits the resources and consumption of the user is unfortunate. I'd be a much happier person had I found many of the users and resources that aren't immediately presented to me. There has to be a way for them to create a system that presents as many of the resources available to rid themselves of the detrimental echochamber they've formed for their users after a few searches.

Reference:
<a title="YouTube icon" href="https://flickr.com/photos/jurgenappelo/7749081576">YouTube icon</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/jurgenappelo">Jurgen Appelo</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY) license</a> </small>
